hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast production of
neonewsday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy pod I sat down and spoke with
Jasper Johansen the CEO and co-founder
of North stake North stake is building
streamlined and Regulatory Compliance
staking products for institution grade
investors and clients leveraging MPC and
Hardware Solutions North State currently
offers services on popular l1s with
initial plans to offer staking support
for 12 Networks in this conversation
Jesper and I discussed the significance
of Micah legislation in Europe building
businesses off of proof-of-stake
blockchain networks how North stake
provides secure staking services to its
institutional clients plans to launch an
eth staking-based alternative investment
fund and much more just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Jesper and I hope
you enjoy the conversation too
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're joined by
Jasper Johansen the CEO and founder of
North stake how are you doing today
Jasper I am well thank you Dylan happy
to be here yeah I'm very excited to have
this conversation you have a really cool
background so I kind of I want to jump
in and maybe just give our listeners a
little bit of a basic understanding of
who you are and where you come from so
you studied at Copenhagen business
school for both undergraduate and your
Master's and then after you started an
I.T Consulting so could you just share a
little bit more on what your Genesis was
into the business and Tech field yeah I
was fortunate enough to start at a
normal noise i t as it Management
Consultant and spent I think almost four
years there nobody know this is one of
the largest pharmaceutical companies in
the world at least by market cap and
that was my sort of first introduction
into technology and compliance which
sort of makes sense I guess later on
when we talk about North State as well I
spent four years there almost four years
with nnit and then I moved on to
Deloitte I think which is uh a
well-known reputable brand spent also
almost four years there I live more than
the police and then gone to extension
sort of similar type leadership role
with extension strategy and I guess
throughout my career technology and
strategy has sort of been a little bit
core core Focus areas for me in
regulated Industries so you've worked
heavily in uh regulated Industries so I
guess over your tenure of your career
you mentioned Deloitte and Accenture and
you're also currently alongside North
stake working with biobridge Partners
what are some of the kind of big picture
shifts you've noticed in these fields as
technology has advanced and you've
progressed through your career well I
think and and maybe maybe even sort of
honing in on blockchain as well I mean
emerging Technologies is sort of
something that that happens
as this Community Driven thing where
there's a lot of experimentation going
on and we try to figure out what to do
with these new technologies and once
they sort of mature to a certain level
they get picked up by the deloitts and
accentures of this world where you start
to sort of tap into that Trend or those
types of use cases that this technology
enables and basically I think or the way
that the business model works for
dildoid and extensions is it's sort of
this fee driven model either the
Consulting fees or the projects that you
do in order to sort of understand from a
strategic perspective what is this and
how can it be used or leveraged by big
corpers and Enterprises onto sort of the
build phase and and where you actually
build up these these use cases or
technology platforms or even business
platforms and then they sort of
gradually move into an operational state
where you want and this is I think
particular to Accenture for instance
they then want larger sort of
operational type deals where they can
sort of push this and I think you can
think of that as an adoption curve
essentially right when it starts as a
white paper or a point of view paper
somewhere then you are very early on in
terms of the adoption of the technology
and once it becomes sort of a bread and
butter operational type of work for
someone like extension then you know you
sort of hit sort of a mature State I've
seen a lot of different types of
Technologies move through that adoption
curve over the past sort of more than a
decade that I spent there and in
particular with regards to blockchain
those types of use cases started already
back in
2016-17 uh it was a big I think uptake
in investments into the field but it was
still sort of following the the
framework that I just laid out it was
still sort of the in the exploratory
phase where companies were trying to
figure out what can blockchains be used
for and what value would this sort of
drive and I think in both cases you
could find suitable use cases and it
would drive a lot of value however there
was this underlying issue about what
network to choose I.E what do we do
about this crypto thing which is sort of
inherent to an open permissionless and
decentralized blockchain right yeah I'm
really excited to delve into North
Stakes solution for I guess choosing the
blockchain network on behalf of your
institutional partners and clients but I
do want to just like keep digging into
your Genesis first so it's really great
insights that you have from kind of like
the larger Enterprise Deloitte Accenture
type of point of view but you know
before we can have an advocate on the
ground building companies like North
stake there has to be that first time
that aha moment so when was the first
time you heard about Bitcoin or ethereum
crypto and then to add on to that
question what was your aha moment
because the first time I heard about
Bitcoin I was in grad school I saw the
price drop like 50 percent to like 300
or something and I thought oh this is
cool and then I didn't come back to the
industry until four years later and the
Genesis moment for me was when I got my
first digital asset and I saw that I was
earning some steak on the token and for
me this was an aha moment like wow this
is passive income I understand this from
a an investing perspective so that's
what clicked for me so when was your
Genesis moment with crypto and then
alternatively what was your aha moment
that's a great question Dylan I mean
when I was working with clients on
blockchain technology at Deloitte we
were looking at you know what can it
sort of be used for right and we had to
look at what are sort of the underlying
networks that can be used and obviously
ethereum was backed in and still is sort
of the fastest horse
and she started to look into a theme and
started to look into consensus
mechanisms she would start looking to
proof of work I understood early on that
you you know you had Bitcoin as well
said and sort of not in the vicinity of
what corporate adoption looked like but
it existed but I didn't understand that
proof of work consensus mechanisms are
actually fine I know that's someone a
crypto native would kill me for saying
this but I you know proof of work
consensus making their sense you need to
mine blocks in order to make the network
function and secure it I mean these
things these Concepts were sort of okay
that's pretty interesting and what can
you then build on this thing I was very
drawn to sort of the utility of ethereum
more than sort of falling into the rapid
hole of satoshi's white paper actually
so I want to sort of understood that you
could have you could transact value on
chain peer-to-peer that's sort of was
the aha moment for me and how that sort
of could translate into economies big
economies being built on the blockchain
and you could sort of own a piece of
that right you could own a piece of that
underlying Network that was really
fascinating so I think the price of
ethereum was in in around 300 350 and
Bitcoin was in around eight to ten I
think eight to ten thousand dollars and
I went out and bought bought some both
Bitcoin anything and people like you're
crazy man Bitcoin in 10 000 that's you
know it's never gonna go out high up
again
and even with the same as well right so
but I kept it I still haven't actually
but because the thesis was okay this is
a maturing technology right this is a
mature technology you take it put it on
a stick you Chuck it in the closet and
you're not going to look at it for the
next 10 years and if adoption sort of
follows a normal trajectory then that
might be fun to look at in 10 years time
if I were to just take a stab based off
of the prices you mentioned was this
maybe early to mid 2017 yeah that was uh
that was early 2017 where where quite uh
my first crypto yeah and were you
thinking then wow holy cow this is this
is a new network this is my opportunity
to kind of claim digital assets on each
of these networks were you thinking then
of building opportunities or were you
still just kind of wrap your head trying
to wrap your head around viewing these
digital assets as part of an investment
thesis I think more than that I mean for
me I was thinking about this I'll use
the uh sort of exponential growth in the
adoption of blockchain technology and if
that's the case then getting on now it's
great and let's see what this thing
turns into everything thing brows up and
we figure out that there was some
inherent flaw in in blockchain
technology
that we didn't know of then it wouldn't
hurt that much right so I was like okay
let's see where this is going and then
but it also prompted me to sort of
Monitor and track and follow what was
happening in the Bitcoin ecosystem what
was happening in the ethereum ecosystem
the growth the number of developers the
growth of use cases and sort of seeing
how it matured to the point where we
have Facebook trying to launch Libra in
Europe which is sort of a seminal moment
actually before Europe in the sense that
that's when the EU Parliament started to
working actively on crypto regulation
right so almost like four or five years
in the making now we have markets and
crypto assets coming in in full effect
in 2024 so that's sort of the for me
some of the proof points in terms of how
we see adoption play out and that
blockchain Technologies are maturing to
the point where yeah we will see sort of
an exponential growth in that and almost
like a second point of second proof
point for me is that when you see
Technologies grow into let's say the
mainstream or the mature you also see
how I think some of the early stage
investors and focus so change that that
sort of focus changes in a way so now
everybody's hyped about Ai and sort of
pushing blockchain away for me that's
not a bad thing for me that means that
the next sort of stage experts in in BC
invest investing and PE are sort of
taking over now right for me that's uh
that's a proof point or an adoption
point that I'm actually actively
monitoring I agree I see a lot of
potential collaboration between the AI
space and cryptocurrencies especially
when we start talking about AI models
communicating with one another
implementing iot there needs to be a way
for these semi-intelligent devices on
the internet of things to be able to
transact without the need for a human to
authenticate a transaction that's a
really interesting point that you're
bringing up that you're also keeping an
eye on but before we kind of delve into
you brought up mikin I want to touch on
your perspective on that but also I'm a
proud Coloradan and we have a very
strong blockchain culture here and
cryptocurrency culture here so so before
we recorded I mentioned that I'd always
admired Copenhagen for the city's
bicycle culture and the architecture but
I'm curious to hear a little bit more
about what is the blockchain community
like in Copenhagen and maybe what's the
receptiveness to blockchain and crypto
companies in Denmark as a total it's not
a very big Community but I think it has
to do with Denmark being a small country
when I talk about the crypto community
and the blockchain community in Denmark
I'd like to point out two sort of key
things right one is that you have all
who's University which it's outside it's
the second largest city of Denmark who
consistently rank in the top three when
you look at cryptography and blockchain
uh sort of the scientific aspects and
research done in this field and the
hashing functions that sort of connect
all of the blocks on all of the
blockchains in the world world is this
particular hashing function developed by
Myrtle Dango we tend to focus focus too
much on Merkel but that's actually a
dumb goal as well
whose uh professor at Old University so
he helped develop that hashing function
and actually makes all of the
blockchains in the world work another
very notable figure that you can point
to is Tobin Peterson he's he's a rock
star in his field in Peterson
commitments which are sort of the
predecessor to a certain knowledge proof
it's actually the foundation for how you
create serial knowledge proof so his
paper on Peterson commitments are quite
well known so those are actually true
sort of grandfathers or blockchain
technology from Denmark from always
University at the same time in
Copenhagen and North State as well we
work actively with regulators and the
Danish FSA power regulator is very
active in understanding how blockchain
means can be used and how also to govern
them the Danish FSA whether with a sort
of a handful of Industry people from
Denmark have provided a lot of the input
to the Mika legislation uh the Meeker
Bill and Angela Kaufman who's a sits on
the board up north they're actually
co-founded the industry group with
Michael gruner from from chinalysis I
fellow Dean as well Michael Brunner from
genelysis that sort of work functioned
as the industry grew that provided input
to to the legislative process for Mika
yeah so that's sort of it's a big
Community you also have and I think I
always want to mention this as well in
Denmark you have Rooney Christensen make
a dial the biggest and I like to say
greatest sort of decentralized David
coin out there so that you had that
whole Community as well so yeah it's a
it's a small community because it's a
small country but it's a big footprint I
guess yeah there's a lot of constant
tradition for like thought leaders
essentially it sounds like that are
coming out of the academic sphere and
luckily I think more so than in a lot of
other Industries the blockchain space
and cryptocurrency lends to allowing
academics to kind of launch projects
because this is the first time in
history that an economic layer is baked
into a technology so that allows for
just so many different types of
innovative and unique ways for people to
kind of make a splash onto the scene so
you briefly mentioned in that response
and prior you mentioned Mika which you
know me being an American I'm worried
about my own uh regulation concerns and
issues here in the states so I feel like
I've had a really hard time kind of
keeping my finger on the pulse for what
Mika means for Europe based companies
that are building so I'm just gonna add
a broad question and kind of let you go
how has Mika positively or negatively
impacted the ability for blockchain and
crypto companies to locate in Europe
well it's I think it's all a positive
but I still I still think that you need
sort of a general sentiment to change on
crypto as a legitimate asset class and
sort of the broader investing
communities you'll be like but Mika
certainly brings a lot of clarity which
then in terms bring trust and it also
brings a lot of legitimacy to blockchain
technology and to crypto and to crypto
projects but before sort of diving into
the core Primitives if you like of mecan
and what sort of this regulatory
framework will do for Europe I think
it's important to take a step back and
say why do we have Meek in the first
place and and what is sort of the
purpose and aim of me care other than
just regulating this industry Europe was
sort of sort of missed an opportunity or
missed the boat on the whole web 2. if
you look at the top 15 biggest companies
that were sort of born out of web 2
Google Facebook and the list goes on but
you won't see any you know European
companies there the only one you can
find is a Spotify I think maybe in 16 or
something like that which means that
Europe just completely missed the boat
on web 2 us and Asia sort of let that
iteration of the internet
and although it was prompted by
Facebook's Libra the sentiment in Europe
was now this was an opportunity it's a
sort of front-run an opportunity like
that to enable a growing ecosystem of
web 3 companies then you need regulation
you need you need sort of clear guidance
and I like to say that eu's greatest
export is is is regulation you just
think about GDP and all the great all
the great stuff but it also means that
we in Europe took the time to elicit all
of the experience and Industry Insight
input and sort of break that into the
legislation itself so a lot of what is
already standard practices are actually
being put into have been put into Mika
and that makes it for let's say someone
like North stake we a regulated virtual
asset service provider as it is and with
Mika we will we will have our regulatory
status passport throughout Europe which
will make it so much easier to expand
our business in the European area for
the eea zone and
on top of that the legitimacy that EU
regulation brings to the industry would
also help mature all of the partners
counterparties that we have that will
start with clients and Banks and other
type infrastructure providers as well as
sort of the ongoing dialogue that we
have with Regulators on what does the
future iterations of me can look like
right so that sits in stark contrast I
think when you look at what's taking
place in the U.S at the moment so as it
is right now I think that Europe is in
the front of the field with regards to
crypto adoption some mainstream crypto
adoption but we need to sort of keep
pushing in order to to keep that Gap
yeah it seems when Libra was announced
in 2019 that was kind of a watershed
moment for the world when meta was
saying this is something we're
interested in building and while it's
failed I think it did kind of it was the
marble at the top of the snowy hill and
now we're starting to see the snowball
form so kind of getting into the work
that North State does which is providing
proof-of-stake Services staking services
for institutional clients I kind of want
to start from a 10 000 foot View and
then we can kind of dig in and cut more
into what North stake is just from your
general perspective you talked about
this earlier you mentioned proof of work
I'm just curious to hear from your
perspective do you think that other
consensus mechanisms like proof of work
are adversarial to proof of stake or do
you see them as a sort of complementary
consensus mechanism I'm a proof State
kind of guy but but I do recognize and
appreciate group of work consensus
mechanisms I mean there's a reason why
Bitcoin is I would say the most
decentralized Network out there right
and continues to be that then obviously
we can fall into rapid holes with with
staking pools and Mining pools and and
concentration and all that but just
purely looking at the consensus
mechanism if you can solve for the
energy consumption issue which I think
you can I see no issue in in proof of
work and and proof of work in that sense
has I think some advantages or proof of
stake which I think is a sort of clearly
laid out but you need to sort of figure
out how to solve the energy issue and
then multiple different ways that you
can do that and as blockchain and crypto
adoption grows I'm sure we'll find ways
to run A6 in a way that is not
detrimental to the environment but can
improve yeah even improve acid
deficiencies in sort of existing energy
structures but we focus occurs a lot on
on proof of stake because that there's
also a business model that ties into
that which sits well with no steak
perfect opportunity to intro into can
you just give us an elevator pitch of
what North stake is and also what are
some of the core problems that your
company is seeking to solve yeah so
North State was founded on the idea that
you need Regulatory Compliance service
providers who can service institutional
investors who have requirements that are
exceed that or sort of a retail client
they also Bound by regulation and
mandates and corporate governance rules
that would make it difficult or
challenging for an Institutional
Investor to engage sort of the
traditional infrastructure technology
service providers that we see out there
right and I think also just the idea of
self-custody for a institutional
investors is just a no-go I mean
I like to say that
if you invested if you're an
Institutional Investor you have a
position in gold which you most likely
have who would then hold the keys to the
vote or you know where do we store all
the gold these questions seem silly but
that's basically what what you're trying
to persuade an Institutional Investor to
do when you talk about digital assets
right what mountain do we which mountain
did we store our golden so what North
State does is that we operate the node
infrastructure we take custody of our
clients assets we are regulated
custodian as well on top of that we put
a lot of compliance systems that are
designed to ensure that there are
segregation of client assets that assets
that are being staked are not co-mingled
that we have Source approval funds and
all of the assets that are taking with
us
that there are no unknown or hidden
counterparties that you have one
counterparty that you're engaging that's
North State and that our validators are
known infrastructure is ring fenced in a
way where we are required by uh
Regulators to submit suspicious activity
reports if there's something funky going
on and in that sense sort of protect the
Integrity of the investment long term
right that's sort of the core product of
North State so we sort of package that
capability into what we like to call
Regulatory Compliance taking products
because majority of our clients they
don't wake up in the morning and think
about crypto we like to think like to
say that they have 99 or 99 99 problems
but crypto is not one of them because I
can stay used of course they use North
State but what we mean by that is that
most institutional investors have a
background in effects Commodities Equity
so or they have 99 other stuff on their
balance sheet that they care much more
about or more focused on what takes a
more focus and the minor location that
they're doing to crypto has to be done
in a way that is is not going to get
them fired and that is held securely and
in compliance with not only their
Corporal governance and rules and
mandates but also some general
compliance AMR compliance and so on so
that's sort of what we deliver so that's
the core product and we've we've seen uh
so far a lot of demand for that those
types of mistaking products a different
way of thinking about staking I guess
yeah as a big fan of hip-hop I really
appreciate the Jay-Z call out there also
I think that a lot of times when it
comes to cryptocurrency and blockchain
there's so much that we have to learn to
be able to understand this digital asset
class that's emerging But ultimately
something that I think you pointed out
is what the retail investors such as
myself never thinks of and that is I
love the analogy that you use with gold
if you're an Institutional client and
you hold gold you're not holding that in
your own Vault you're employing Loomis
most likely because that's the largest
custodial provider for for gold in
Europe I think globally as well so I'm
curious Norse stake was conceptualized
founded in early 2022 what was it about
the time frame in january-ish I believe
it was that kind of gave you and your
founding team the motivation or the kind
of idea that if you went for this that
this is the time that it'll work well it
was not one thing and I I've monitored
this space for years right and think
okay when is a good time to launch a
company in web 3 focusing on this and it
was like oh it was it was always sort of
two or three years away right and then
it looked like Mika would be all Mika in
sort of a preliminary form was in the
tech was approved you had so serious
signals on the merge coming up you we
were in this raging
bull market and there was a lot of unmet
need from institutional investors to the
point where okay maybe now is the time
but then we're also acutely aware of
sort of a core premise of launching the
company was that we wanted to create
value from day one right uh we weren't
going to build out a company in the
garage and sort of again and we wanted
to launch immediately and we had an
opportunity with a blockchain project
called concordium which is a Swiss slash
DK based project and we managed to
secure clients and tokens to stay quite
early on on that project so that sort of
became the launch pad for us to launch
our our products and services and I've
sort of steadily grown grown from there
so in the heights of 2022 just before
the I think Terra Luna crash I think
which surpassed 80 million us dollars in
in tokens taking uh with North Tech
obviously prices are very volatile and I
mean we're actually incorporate the
company in November of 21 and if you
look at if you look at the price of
Bitcoin that is actually at the exact
moment where all-time high was achieved
and it's been steadily going down since
but we managed to sort of grow acid
volume despite prices depreciating
seeing great performance regardless of
of sort of the bear market conditions
that we've been in and I think that's
sort of um that's sort of a testament to
the power of proof of stake as a
business model as well yeah Lars from
Concordia was also a guest on the smart
economy podcast so you're in you're in
good company with smart economy pod
alumni North Stakes Genesis is very
similar to mine going into the
blockchain space I bought my first
Bitcoin crypto in summer of 2017 and was
just speculatively consuming as much as
I could and getting as much as I could
at the top and then I went full time
into the space in October 2018 which was
the exact bottom of the previous bear
cycle so I can um relate with some of
the trials and tribulations that Norse
thick has gone through now I know that
this is going to be kind of a very
simple you know to many who are in
understanding of what like custodial
solution providers offer this is
probably going to be a simple
non-question but I do want to just ask
this so that our audience can have a
better understanding how does North
stake differentiate from other staking
entities like Lido and how does it
compare or contrast to other types of
custodial solution providers for
institutional clients yeah that's a
great question the best way that I can
illustrate or articulate this is is to
say that if you're a retail investor you
you can connect your wallet and passive
income anywhere right if you're an
Institutional Investor what do you think
about is risk management and risk
management in this I'd like to say that
our institutional investors need a
counterparty because they want to know
who they can sue if things go wrong
right who's accountable and that is very
difficult to do if you try to
counterparty assess a smart contract or
a staking protocol or a dial right a
decentralized autonomous organization
how do you do that right how do you
assess the risk who is actually sitting
behind the smart contract and that makes
it very difficult for institutional
investors to weigh in to this P5 space
essentially right and that's what sort
of North State changes in a way right
that is that you have the one comes upon
focusing specifically on staking and
long-term holds as opposed to sort of a
centralized exchange where they can also
offer staking but you have a lot of
other things going on and that makes the
risk assessment much more complicated in
a sense right because
we take our clients assets and we deploy
them in on validator nodes we can show
them cryptographic proof of their funds
being locked and staking and this is
sort of the legal perspective we cannot
take you know rehypothecate their assets
or other means so in that sense it's
it's fairly straightforward that we can
provide the assurance that your funds
are locked and staking we are not a
lending borrowing protocol in that sense
so we only operate nodes in a secure way
and can manage that rigorous sort of
compliance systems that clients need
right you and I we don't do that we are
happy just to self-costalize our assets
you know save our seed phrase in a in a
secure location delegate on other
networks kind of thing right but I like
to say that if you're working in a
financial institution you want to go to
work not be being worried about where
the keys the crypto or the keys to the
gold is stored right let's just sit sort
of well outside of of your sort of remit
and of course that's that's why you need
centralized counterparties if you want
institutional uh Mass adoption yeah and
I want to briefly just ask a moment can
you just show the accolades of your team
what excites you about the team members
that you founded North stake with and
what are the skill sets that they're
bringing to the table that really
excites you to wake up every day and
work with these guys or girls yeah
exactly I mean so we have three
co-founders as well and yes
um on whom I met at what time at
Deloitte spend the decade in Deloitte
working in financial services he's an
advisor to the world economic Forum or
blockchain adoption Lucas solini work a
lot in private Equity it's you know
heading up our trading offerings
it was our last co-founder and he's you
know a very accomplished mathematician
and cryptographer and and OG on on ECM
development is one of the best smart
contract developers in the world and
we've also managed to attract I think a
strong team at the sort of the board
level we have Christina Davenport who's
former World Bank and uh international
finance corporations actually
Corporation actually in Washington and
she sits on a number of boards or
Pension funds and someone funds we have
Cabeza Gupta from the US from Delta
blockchain fund will help co-pound I
think consensus VC and Bina sort of a
regular and regular voice on crypto in
in U.S mainstream media uh we have payam
samandi who's
um who supported the dye Foundation make
it out for a number of years so has has
had some like hofmeyer will quantify
I've also founded this Industry Group
with with Michael Brunner from which
analysis so we have a really strong team
that's just a few of them and that is
sort of the bridge the stratify and
crypto worlds and we really we sort of
have you know one of these strong
strongest teams in Europe at least to
sort of penetrate that market or on sort
of the long tail of institutional
investors who all need to adopt crypto
into their portfolios and all have 99
other things on their mind and then
crypto so that sort of uh that's on the
in-game part that's a great board and
co-founding group I guess of folks that
you guys have been able to bring
together uh so thanks for sharing that
so from the Personnel perspective it
sounds like North stake is well teamed
to go to to battle in the blockchain
industry something that I'm really
curious to hear about how do you
incorporate decentralized security
systems like fire blocks using MPC
Solutions and also I believe I read
somewhere on the website that there's a
hardware Ledger integration in some way
so how do you integrate Hardware
security
and MPC Security in a way that may be a
crypto native like you or me we're like
okay this is great you know I can
understand these two sort of custodial
Solutions how do you implement these
decentralized and self-sovereign
Solutions in a way that institutional
clients kind of buy into it and and
understand the services and the security
that nor stake offers I think by now MPC
is sort of the industry standard for how
to operate sort of Music wallets in a
secure way I know that a lot of sort of
Unchained Solutions as well but I think
for the institutional grade that we need
and also requires a level of
documentation and auditing that we have
achieved with fireblocks so fireblocks
is sucked to certified or audited and
north state is also Isa you put password
to type one audited so they'll sing sort
of grow well together and we use
fireblocks to secure you know securely
handle our our clients assets fireblocks
also offers insurance on the solution
which is the added bonus especially in
the space it's hard to combine
for Hardware security modules a part of
the flow or the way that we operate when
we execute the staking operation is by
leveraging Hardware security modules to
store validator Keys those keys are not
as dangerous so to speak as it's not as
sensitive as sort of what you would
understand to be let's say the seed
phrase so your private key but they do
need a level of security in order to to
avoid certain types of attack and for me
spending you know a lot of time in in
technology and management consulting we
approach I think our stack from from two
perspectives right one is the sort of
the security and audits way that
corporations
Enterprises third parties know and
understand and the second is a security
approach that is born out of how the
unforgiving nature or have The
Unforgiven nature blockchains work right
so I think we we sort of balance in a
very nice way the Practical versus the
more process-led type security that
you'll see and I think you'll see that
North stake solution security solution
is is on par with with what you'll find
in sort of traditional financial
institutions and our clients sort of
Praise us for divisibility and
transparency into how we operate at that
level and sort of providing the
documentation needed for them to do the
the risk assessment that they need to do
perfect
um I'm not sure if you're able to
divulge specific clients but I'm going
to ask anyways can you maybe share with
us some of your clients higher profile
clients and if you can't right now could
you maybe just give some general types
of examples of the types of clients that
are utilizing North Stakes services sure
I mean we can't disclose who our clients
are but they sort of range in between
family offices Venture funds some
private Equity as well investment firms
and also High net worth individuals so
that's sort of the range and we have
clients in Europe at least
predominantly so I think that's that's
what I can say about that totally
understandable so kind of an addendum to
that question given all the calamities
of 2022 you know three arrows Capital
collapse FTX collapse from the
centralized custodial sort of
perspective and then also to have a
blockchain network like Terra Luna
collapse what was the Fallout of these
catastrophic events did you see a
wavering in your clients faith and the
asset class did you did you see your
phone lines ringing a little bit less
because maybe you're respective clients
were a little bit shaken what is just
kind of some of the insights that you've
seen for more the institutional High net
worth sort of uh clients that you're
taking on we didn't see sort of um a big
movements with our clients or big shocks
with our clients because many of our
clients they only sort of hold
traditional traditional crypto asset by
top tiered crypto assets and I know that
at the point at the point at that point
in time Tara Luna right very high on
sort of market cap but most of our
clients were were just asking us to
understand what had happened as I said
earlier we do not engage in lending
borrowing we're not uh we're not a
lending board we're not D5 protocol and
consequently we had zero exposure to to
Terra Luna so our clients also looks
look to us as a source of research and
insights on you know what's happening in
the space
and I think it was it was it was it was
clear early on that the math didn't
quite check out I mean 20 year unstable
coin that's not possible in any any
Universe I think and we cautioned people
to to invest 200 into into that if we
were asked I mean the majority of sort
of traditional Financial traditional
institutional investors were just
looking at us you know shaking their
head and saying what's going on in this
this crazy world of yours and and I
think with the blow up of FTX that sort
of cleared the headlines right because
something blowing up in D5 land okay
fair enough but and it was a bit cool
yes great a big the blast radius was
enormous however I think it was it was
the fact that FTX you know blew up or
was exposed as a fraud
that sort of really scared a lot of
institutional investors a lot of the
investors that we talk to on an ongoing
basis because it's sort of yeah that was
that was I think that was just a big PR
disaster going on and then once people
sort of understood that this was a fraud
and it was exposed as a fraud then the
appetite sort of for crypto sort of came
back a little bit right because they
needed to understand that this was this
was a major fraud and I think I think
for you as I think U.S needs to have
closure on that entire thing before
you'll see sort of major crypto
institutional crypto adoption from I'm
not talking about sort of BlackRock and
Fidelity and but you know normal funds
sermons Pension funds so and so forth
too many sort of got burned on the FTX
thing we need to sort of have closure on
that for I think
this isn't a long tailor of
institutional investors will start
weighing in and obviously yeah and
that's a lot of regulatory Clarity in
the need as well but I just sort of the
Yeah my two cents on that I guess yeah I
agree um there's still a big wound and
we we don't have any closure here but
that's fair Insight it's nice to hear
that you know once people realized that
this was a scam a fraud that FTX was
doing that it was easier for
institutions to kind of look past that
and sort of start thinking about
building again so as we kind of wrap up
and and um kind of zoom out what are the
proof of stake networks that North State
currently offers services for so no
state currently offers State King on 12
different assets although we have two or
three assets that are not listed on our
website yet that we also support but it
is Avalanche
concordium customers
you see it's Flair as well ICP e-guild
near polka dot magic and Solana and we
are launching soon what we call crypto
staking products which are basically
sort of a composite or an index of sort
of stakeable crypto tokens into one
product where you can allocate using
stable coins and then that sort of
rebalances on on the on the monthly what
that allows you to do is to still hold
tokens but get a broad exposure through
one investment vehicle from one
investment product that was a crypto
investment product in that earns yield
based on the crypto assets that are
taking inside of it yeah my Genesis into
investing personally was through index
funds so I'm a big fan of indices so
it's really cool to hear that this is a
type of product that norstake is off
offering wrapping up in my second to
last question what are some of the next
steps for North stake what are some
other networks that your team is looking
at and are there other sort of indices
for other blockchain verticals like D5
Dows or nft that North stake is seeking
to offer your clients so nostal is
actually partnering with crypto hedge
funds alike and investment firms who are
looking to build a spot in ethereum
ETF that incorporates staking so we are
happy to announce soon that we will or
maybe this will be the first one to say
that we are working with a partner to
get a alternative investment fund
Airborne which will be ethereum staking
100 which makes it very easy for
institutional investors to get a stake
in into the ethereum without sort of
going on on the staking rewards this
will enable to hold equities instead of
token and that's a writer reason why
that's a benefit but we can't disclose
yet the name of the product or the on
the front yet or we can sort of tease up
that that doctor is working on this and
uh we are actually really looking for
partners so if you in your area of the
world want to launch uh you know a spot
ether ETF then you know or alternative
investment fund please do hook me up
well you heard it here folks for the
first time North stake is looking at a
new alternative investment fund so
thanks for spilling the beans here
Jasper this was a really informative
conversation and I want to thank you so
much for sharing an hour of your time to
come chat with us about your background
your expertise and a lot of the really
exciting sort of steps North stake is
taking to onboard institutional clients
I guess wrapping up if there's any way
that you want people to reach out to you
or North stake what's the best way yeah
your preferred platform of choice
LinkedIn Twitter telegram direct mail on
our website just go for it awesome well
thank you so much for for chatting with
us Jasper and I'm looking forward to
keeping up with the progress that North
stake makes over the coming years thank
you so much Dylan thank you for having
me cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I couldn't help but have a
flashback over my time and the space
when Jesper touted the significance of
Libra's proposal to build a stable coin
project was announced in 2019 and can
really be seen as a pivotal moment that
kicked off institutional activity and
North stake is one of the direct results
of that momentum a light bulb went off
for me when Jesper compared
institutional digital asset custody to
that of gold and that institutions
alligate a portion of their portfolio
into gold but rely on a custodian to
hold the asset just like they'll need
with digital assets and simply as
someone who has pride in their local
blockchain community it was really cool
to hear Jasper tout the significance of
his fellow Danish citizens and the
contributions they've made to the
cryptocurrency space on that note I want
to thank you so much for taking the time
time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative as part of
Neo's governance process we appreciate
you and look forward to catching you
next time
foreign